The earth has more than 80,000 species of edible plants.
90 percent of the foods humans eat come from just 30 plants.
Nutrition doesn’t factor into the crops we do mass produce.
70,000 plant species are utilized for medicine.
Only one percent of rainforest plants have been studied for medicinal potential.
80 percent of the Earth’s original forests have been cleared or destroyed.
Just 10 percent of the world’s plant-rich areas are protected.
More than half of plant species are native to just one country.
68 percent of plants are in danger of going extinct.
Plant species are going extinct—about 5,000 times faster than they should.
Tree resin which has been fossilized is known as amber, it sometimes contains plant material or small animals that were trapped inside.
Some plants are carnivores, gaining nutrients by eating various small insects and spiders. A well known example of a carnivorous plant is the Venus Flytrap.
Bamboo can be a fast growing plant, some types can grow almost a metre (3.28 feet) in just one day!
While using energy from sunlight, plants turn carbon dioxide into food in a process called photosynthesis.
Around 2000 different types of plants are used by humans to make food.
Onions might taste good but they can be painful to chop. A gas is released when you cut onions that irritates you eyes, the tears you produce while this happens are your body’s way of washing it from your eyes.
In the agricultural industry, to ensure crops of food grow well water is often added to soil in the form of irrigation.
Plant matter found at the bottom of areas with water such as swamps can eventually turn into coal due to a process called metamorphosis (changing form).
There are over 200,000 identified plant species and the list is growing all the time.
Poison ivy produces a skin irritant called urushiol. Touching poison ivy will cause an allergic reaction, usually in the form of an itchy rash on the skin.
Fertilizers are chemicals added to plants to help them grow. Important elements in fertilizers include nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium. Manure (animal waste) is also used as a fertilizer.
An average size tree can provide enough wood to make 170,100 pencils!
The first type of aspirin, pain killer and fever reducer came from a the tree bark of a willow tree!
85% of plant life is found in the ocean!
Bananas contain a natural chemical which can make people feel happy!
Brazil is named after a tree!
The Amazon rainforest produces half the world’s oxygen supply!
Cricket bats are made of a tree called Willow an dbaseball bats are made out of wood Hickory tree!
Dendrochronology is the science of calculating a tree’s age by its rings!
Caffeine serves the function of a pesticide in a coffee plant! 
Apple is 25% air, that is why it floats on water!
Peaches, Pears, apricots, quinces, strawberries, and apples are members of the rose family!
Apple,potatoes and onions have the same taste, to test this eat them with you nose closed!
The tears during cutting an onion are caused by sulfuric acid present in them!
The tallest tree ever was an Australian eucalyptus – In 1872 it was measured at 435 feet tall!
The first potatoes were cultivated in Peru about 7,000 years ago!
The evaporation from a large oak or beech tree is from ten to twenty-five gallons in twenty-four hours!
Strawberry is the only fruit that bears its seeds on the outside.The average strawberry has 200 seeds!
Leaving skin on potatoes while cooking is healthier as all the vitamins are in the skin!
Around 2000 different types of plants are used by humans to make food!
Small pockets of air inside cranberries cause them to bounce and float in water!
Bamboo is the fastest-growing woody plant in the world; it can grow 35 inches in a single day!
A sunflower looks like one large flower, but each head is composed of hundreds of tiny flowers called florets, which ripen to become the seeds!
Cabbage has 91% water content!
Banana is an Arabic word for fingers!
The California redwood (coast redwood and giant sequoia) are the tallest and largest living organism in the world!
Ginkgo (Ginkgo biloba) is one of the oldest living tree species, it dates back to about 250 million years ago!
The word pineapple comes from European explorers who thought the fruit combined the look of a pinecone with flesh like that of an apple!
The Elephant grass found in Africa is named so as it it 4.5 meters high and even elephant s can hide in it!
Eating lots of onions will make you sleepy, as it acts as a sedative!
A cucumber is a fruit and not a vegetable since it has seeds in the centre!
A cluster of bananas is called a hand and consists of 10 to 20 bananas known as fingers!
Vanilla flavoring comes from the pod of an orchid, Vanilla planifolia!
The first certified botanical garden was founded by Pople Nicholas III in the Vatican City in 1278 AD!
There are over 300,000 identified plant species and the list is growing all the time!
Oak trees are struck by lightning more than any other tree!
Carrots were originally purple in colour!
During the 1600s, tulips were so valuable in Holland that their bulbs were worth more than gold. The craze was called tulip mania and caused the crash of the Dutch economy!
The baobab tree found in Africa can store 1,000 to 120,000 liters of water in its swollen trunk!
Oak trees don’t produce acorns until they are 50 years old!
Caffeine serves the function of a pesticide in a coffee plant!
At over 2000 kilometers long, The Great Barrier Reef is the largest living structure on Earth!
The first product to have a barcode was Wrigely’s gum!
Torenia, a shade-loving annual, is called the wishbone flower. Look for tiny wishbone-shape stamens inside the purple, blue or burgundy petals.
The world's tallest-growing tree is the coast redwood (Sequoia sempervirens), which grows along the Pacific Coast of the United States, mainly in California. Interestingly enough, it's not the world's oldest-growing tree; that award goes to a bristlecone pine (Pinus aristata).
Tomato juice is the official state beverage of Ohio, honoring the part A. W. Livingston of Reynoldsburg, Ohio, played in popularizing the tomato in the late 1800s.
Archaeologists have uncovered evidence that grapes were grown to make wine about 8,000 years ago in Mesopotamia (today's Iraq), although the ancient Egyptians were the first to record the process of making wine about 5,000 years ago.
During the 1600s, tulips were so valuable in Holland that their bulbs were worth more than gold. The craze was called tulip mania, or tulipomania, and caused the crash of the Dutch economy. Tulips can continue to grow as much as an inch per day after being cut.
Vanilla flavoring comes from the pod of an orchid, Vanilla planifolia. Though the pods are called vanilla beans, they're more closely related to corn than green beans.
The word pineapple comes from European explorers who thought the fruit combined the look of a pinecone with flesh like that of an apple. Pineapples are the only edible members of the bromeliad family.
From a botanical standpoint, avocados and pumpkins are fruits, not vegetables, because they bear the plants' seeds. Rhubarb, on the other hand, is a vegetable.
Saffron, used as a flavoring in Mediterranean cooking, is harvested from the stigmas of a type of fall-blooming crocus, Crocus sativus.
Poinsettias, natives of Mexico, were brought to the United States in 1825 by the first U.S. minister to Mexico, Joel Poinsett, for whom the plant is named.
Small pockets of air inside cranberries cause them to bounce and float in water.
The flower of the titan arum (Amorphophallus titanium) is the largest unbranched flower in the world and can reach up to 15 feet tall. The bloom produces a smell like that of rotting meat, giving it the common name of corpse flower. A similar smell comes from Rafflesia, another plant that hails from the rain forests of Sumatra. Both plants developed their scent so they could be pollinated by flies; they don't compete with other blooms for butterflies and hummingbirds.
All parts of the oleander (Nerium oleander), a beautiful Mediterranean-native flowering shrub, are poisonous. Ingesting oleander leaves can cause gastrointestinal, cardiac, and central nervous system problems and possible death.
Iris means "rainbow" in Greek, and Iris was goddess of the rainbow in Greek mythology. Wormwood (Artemisia) was named after the goddess Artemis, milkweed (Asclepias) after the god Asclepius, and Hebe after the Greek goddess Hebe.
The difference between nectarines and peaches is that nectarines don't have fuzzy skins. You can graft peach branches onto a nectarine tree or nectarine branches onto a peach tree so you have both types of fruits.
The average strawberry has 200 seeds. It's the only fruit that bears its seeds on the outside.
Sulfuric compounds are to blame for cut onions bringing tears to your eyes. According to the National Onion Association, chilling the onion and cutting the root end last reduces the problem.
Garlic mustard is a member of the mustard family, not garlic. This invasive herb outcompetes native plants in the Eastern and Midwestern United States, posing a threat to other native plants and the species that depend on them.
Ginkgo (Ginkgo biloba) is one of the oldest living tree species; it dates back to about 250 million years ago. Dawn redwood (Metasequoia glyptostroboides) is another ancient species; it dates back about 150 million years. Both were known in the fossil record before they were found alive.
Trees are the longest-living organisms on earth.
Peanuts are not nuts, but legumes related to beans and lentils. They have more protein, niacin, folate, and phytosterols than any nut, according to the National Peanut Board.
The title for the world's hottest chili pepper remains contested. ¿Bhut Jolokia', 401.5 times hotter than bottled hot pepper sauce, earned the Guinness World Records title in 2007, but several hotter chilis claimed the title in 2011.
The average tree is made up of 99% dead cells. The only living parts are the leaves, root tips, and phloem, which is a thin layer of under bark that acts as a food delivery system.
A Bonsai Orange Tree will actually produce tiny oranges.
The entire dandelion plant is edible. Its leaves provide your recommended daily intake of Vitamin K, its flowers can be used to make wine, its root can be used to make a brewed drink that tastes a bit like coffee, and its also used in several soft drinks.
The smell of freshly cut grass is actually a plant distress call.
In fact, cabbage, kale, cauliflower, Brussels sprouts, broccoli, Chinese cabbage and savoy are all the same species of plant, but are so selectively bred that they no longer resemble one another.
Marijuana and hops are from the same plant family: Cannabaceae. But broccoli, broccolini, and broccoli rabe are not.
Scientists were able to revive a flowering plant from the fossilized fruit found in the stomach of an Arctic ground squirrel who was trapped in ice around 32,000 years ago.
One third of the plant life on the island of Socotra near Yemen can’t be found anywhere else on Earth. It has been described as “most alien-looking place on Earth”.
Plants are capable of recognizing their siblings and will give them preferential treatment, competing less for valuable resources like root space than when surrounded by plants that are strangers.
A herb is specifically from the leaf of a plant, and a spice is from the seed, berry, stem, bark, root or bulb.
“Fruit” is a botanical term and “vegetable” is a culinary term, so certain vegetation such as tomatoes, green beans, eggplants, and cucumbers could be called either fruits or vegetables.